Let's talk about inputs.
So sometimes you wanna accept
information from your users, right?
So you can imagine you're filling out
some sort of shipping information, right?
So if you're trying to ship some shoes
to yourself or something like that,
they'll have something here of like put
in your first name, and you'll put Brian.
That particular part where you accept user
input is called, as you might imagine,
user input.
So these are browser inputs, it's input
that the browser provides for you.
They'll look sometimes slightly different,
Windows ones will look a little bit
different than Mac, cuz a lot of times
they're provided by the operating system.
But yeah, they're very useful because
there are a bunch of these pre-built
kind of components that allow you to
accept information from a user, and
there's a bunch of different types.
I always say the one that I 99% of the
time end up using is probably this input
type= text.
Which if you just leave out the type=
text here, it's also the default one.
You notice that this is
the same as this one, right?
These two are the same, right?
But I just wanted to show you
that if you leave it off,
it is by default a type= text type.
And then I threw a bunch of other
ones on there just for use.
So you can have a color selector.
So let's say we wanna choose a nice,
I don't know, a green, okay?
So someone could do that, right?
And now, they've selected a green color,
maybe you have them choosing the color
of the t-shirt that they're creating.
This is a file selector.
So I can upload a file or something like
that, I can go select this file here and
this will upload this file or
something like that.
You need a server to upload it to,
but this will allow the user to choose
which file that they wanna select.
This is a number, right?
So I can only enter,
only numbers will be allowed here.
And then I can put numbers here, and
they'll have the down arrow and up arrow.
That's a number selector.
This one is for users, if they need
to select a time and date, all right?
So for this one,
they wanted to do May 1, 2022.
This will allow them to do that,
and then this will allow
them to select a time as
like 12:30 AM on May 1.
Radio buttons, so
if you have five options and
you wanna user to choose one of them,
you'll use radio buttons.
And then if you have five options and
you wanna user to select 0 to 5,
then you'll use checkboxes, right?
And that's what those are.
So I think that's most of the types there,
there might be a couple more, but
I don't know, I don't use the color
selector very option because typically,
I don't need users to select colors for
me.
But if I did, that's what that's for.
Okay, textareas, I think we're kind
of familiar with these as well.
So imagine going to a comment form
on a particular page like Reddit or
something like that and
you wanna say, This is my comment,
but you wanna add multiple paragraphs or
something like that.
This allows users to put in long-form
text as opposed to something like this.
You can't hit Enter on this, right?
It wouldn't give you multiple lines of
textareas for longer form comments.
And it also has this dragon, so
you can make it bigger or smaller.
That's another text area thing.
Talked about selects.
So, similar to radio buttons here,
if you have like five options and
you want the user to choose one of them,
you'll use this.
You can also use a select.
And between radio groups or radio buttons
and selects, it's just a preference.
I would say, I typically, I see more
selects cuz they're more compact, right?
A dropdown of,
I need to select the state that I live in.
Typically, you'll see those
expressed as selects.
I'll say these more common, but it's up
to you if you wanna use radio buttons or
a select, but that's what this is, right?
So I define a select and
then I define all the various
different options inside of them.
So I wanna use, I'll just choose
San Francisco or Seattle or Portland.
That's what that does.
And then a form is just a group of
inputs and text areas and selects.
So this one, for example,
would be a form of housing expecting
someone to put in their name, right?
So Brian Holt, that little
placeholder here is basically what do
you want the user to see if it's empty,
right?
So it shows grayed out last name, right?
Again, this form isn't going anywhere,
you'll have to do use JavaScript and
your server to kind of hook up a form,
right?
But this is actually just the part of the
HTML that will accept all the information
from the user.